[EDU-2847] feat: Guide - Hello World template (#410)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/marketplace/templates/hello-world/hello-world.mdx

---

import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';

<Badge variant="accent">
Preview
</Badge>

The Azion **Hello World** template deploys an edge application that prints a *Hello, World!* message in your browser and you can use it as a starting point to become familiar with **Azion Edge Platform** and edge computing capabilities.

---

## Getting the template

To use the **Hello World** template, access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/) and select the **Start with a template** option on the homepage.

This will open a new page where you can select the **Hello World** card.

---

## Setting up the template

Once you're in the template's page, click the **Settings** tab to open the configuration form and provide the information to configure your application. 

Fields identified with an asterisk are mandatory.

- **Application Name** *: the name of your edge application. It's used to identify and manage your application within Azion's platform.
  - Use a unique and easy-to-remember name. If the name has already been used, the platform returns an error message.
- **GitHub Personal Token** *: your GitHub personal token.

> :::tip

Author: ```suggestion
:::note
```

:::

### Key configurations

By deploying the **Hello World** template, the script creates an edge application to run on Azion's platform, including its Azion domain and multiple configurations. It also creates an edge function for the custom logic to show the *Hello World!* message.

Additionally, a GitHub repository is created in your account to manage the source code. The script installs all required dependencies and registers the deployment details, including information related to the version deployed and the timestamp of changes. The repository includes a GitHub Action that, by being activated, ensures a continuous deployment workflow, keeping your project up to date. 

If you want to know more on how to edit and customize your project's settings, go to the [Managing the template](#managing-the-template) section.

Additionally, to guarantee the optimal performance of this template, you must activate:

<Badge>
[Edge Functions](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/)
</Badge>

> You must activate this product separately via RTM. To do so:

Author: ```suggestion
You must activate it separately via RTM. To do so:
```

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select the three horizontal lines to open the **Products menu**.
3. In the **BUILD** section, select **Edge Application**.
4. You'll be redirected to the **Edge Application** page.
- It lists all the edge applications you've created. 
5. Find the edge application related to your template and select it. 

> 6. In the **Main Settings** tab, find the **Edge Application Modules** section and active the switch for the product you want to enable.

Author: ```suggestion
6. In the **Main Settings** tab, find the **Edge Application Modules** section and activate the switch for the module you want to enable.
```

:::caution[Warning]

> If this product is activated, the execution of this template could generate usage-related costs. Check the [pricing page](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing/) for more information. 

Author: ```suggestion
If this module is activated, the execution of this template could generate usage-related costs. Check the [pricing page](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing/) for more information. 
```

---
title: How to deploy the Hello World template
description: With this template, deploy an Hello World application to test edge computing capabilities.
meta_tags: templates, guides, Azion Marketplace
namespace: docs_guides_hello_world_template
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/hello-world-template/
---

import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';

<Badge variant="accent">
Preview
</Badge>

The Azion **Hello World** template deploys an edge application that prints a *Hello, World!* message in your browser and you can use it as a starting point to become familiar with **Azion Edge Platform** and edge computing capabilities.

---

## Getting the template

To use the **Hello World** template, access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/) and select the **Start with a template** option on the homepage.

> This will open the building page where you can select the **Hello World** card.

Reviewer: É building page mesmo? Start the application building process?

Author: ajustei aqui para ser mais genérico

> This will open the building page where you can select the **Hello World** card.

Author: ```suggestion
This will open a new page where you can select the **Hello World** card.
```

---

## Setting up the template

Once you're in the template's page, click the **Settings** tab to open the configuration form and provide the information to configure your application. 

Fields identified with an asterisk are mandatory.

- **Application Name** *: the name of your edge application. It's used to identify and manage your application within Azion's platform.
  - Use a unique and easy-to-remember name. If the name has already been used, the platform returns an error message.
- **GitHub Personal Token** *: your GitHub personal token.

:::tip
While generating your GitHub personal token, grant your **scope** with permissions to authorize an OAuth app or a personal token to access public and private repositories, including read and write access to code. You must also enable the **workflow** option to allow adding and updating GitHub Actions workflow files. 

> Note that permissions can be scoped either to a user or an organization or to a repository. Read the [Creating a personal access token documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that permissions can be scoped either to a user, an organization, or to a repository. Read the [Creating a personal access token documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) for more information.
```

:::note
The link to the edge application allows you to see it on the browser. However, ​​it takes a certain time to propagate and configure the application in Azion’s edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and for the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.
:::

### Key configurations

By deploying the **Hello World** template, the script creates an edge application to run on Azion's platform, including its Azion domain and multiple configurations. It also creates an edge function for the custom logic to show the *Hello World!* message.

Additionally, a GitHub repository is created in your account to manage the source code. The script installs all required dependencies and registers the deployment details, including information related to the version deployed and the timestamp of changes. The repository includes a GitHub Action that, by being activated, ensures a continuous deployment workflow, keeping your project up to date. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

If you want to know more on how to edit and customize your project's settings, go to the [Managing the template](#managing-the-template) section.

Additionally, to guarantee the optimal performance of this template, you must activate:

<Badge>
[Edge Functions](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/)
</Badge>

You must activate this product separately via RTM. To do so:

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select the three horizontal lines to open the **Products menu**.
3. In the **BUILD** section, select **Edge Application**.
4. You'll be redirected to the **Edge Application** page.
- It lists all the edge applications you've created. 
5. Find the edge application related to your template and select it. 
6. In the **Main Settings** tab, find the **Edge Application Modules** section and active the switch for the product you want to enable.

:::caution[Warning]
If this product is activated, the execution of this template could generate usage-related costs. Check the [pricing page](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing/) for more information. 
:::

---

## Managing the template

> Considering that this initial setup may not be optimal for your specific edge application, all settings can be customized any time you need by using Azion Real-Time Manager (RTM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Considering that this initial setup may not be optimal for your specific edge application, all settings can be customized any time you need by using RTM.
```

After selecting the edge application you’ll work on, you’ll be directed to a page containing all the settings you can configure.

:::tip
Read the documentation about [managing edge applications](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/first-steps/) for more details.
:::

### Continuous deployment

Once the template is deployed, you can also edit and update your args and code, as well as implement a continuous deployment workflow. However, you'll need first to *declare secrets on your project's GitHub repository* to complete the second build with the changes. When the second build is completed, you'll be able to manage your project with a continuous deployment workflow and edit the args as desired.

To do so, open your new **Hello World** template repository on GitHub. Then, go to **Settings** > **Secrets and variables** > **Action** to [add your variables](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets), following these instructions:

1. Add the Azion personal token to the *secrets*:
- Read [how to generate an Azion personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) in the documentation.

```bash
    AZION_PERSONAL_TOKEN=<value>
```

> 2. Add the environments for use in the action workflow in the **main.yml** file, included in the **.github/workflows** folder of your repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add the environments that'll be used in the action workflow in the **main.yml** file, included in the **.github/workflows** folder of your repository:
```
